---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "slack_conversation Data Source - terraform-provider-slack"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The **slack_conversation** data source retrieves details of a single conversation (channel) in a Slack workspace.
  
  	You can customize the data retrieval using optional parameters such as excluding archived conversations, filtering by conversation types, and specifying the conversation name.
  
  	**Required scopes**
  	
  	- User tokens: channels:read, groups:read, im:read, mpim:read
---

# slack_conversation (Data Source)

The **slack_conversation** data source retrieves details of a single conversation (channel) in a Slack workspace.

		You can customize the data retrieval using optional parameters such as excluding archived conversations, filtering by conversation types, and specifying the conversation name.

		**Required scopes**
		
		- User tokens: channels:read, groups:read, im:read, mpim:read



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `exclude_archived` (Boolean) Exclude archived conversations from the list.
- `name` (String) The name of the conversation (channel) to retrieve.
- `query_limit` (Number) Maximum number of items to query.

				This limit controls how many items are returned in a single query. Setting a higher limit may increase the response time, while a lower limit can help optimize performance and reduce resource usage.

				**Optional:** If not specified, the default limit is 1000.
- `types` (List of String) Types of conversation to include (e.g., 'public_channel', 'private_channel')."

					Default: 'public_channel'

### Read-Only

- `conversation` (Attributes) Details of the Slack conversation. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--conversation))

<a id="nestedatt--conversation"></a>
### Nested Schema for `conversation`

Read-Only:

- `created` (Number) Timestamp of when the conversation was created.
- `creator` (String) User ID of the creator of the conversation.
- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the conversation (channel).
- `is_archived` (Boolean) True if the conversation is archived.
- `is_channel` (Boolean) True if the conversation is a Slack channel.
- `is_ext_shared` (Boolean) True if the conversation is shared externally.
- `is_general` (Boolean) True if this is the general conversation.
- `is_group` (Boolean) True if the conversation is a group (private).
- `is_im` (Boolean) True if the conversation is a direct message.
- `is_member` (Boolean) True if the authenticated user is a member of the conversation.
- `is_mpim` (Boolean) True if the conversation is a multi-party instant message (group DM).
- `is_org_shared` (Boolean) True if the conversation is shared across an organization.
- `is_pending_ext_shared` (Boolean) True if the conversation is pending external sharing.
- `is_private` (Boolean) True if the conversation is private.
- `is_shared` (Boolean) True if the conversation is shared.
- `name` (String) The name of the conversation (channel).
- `name_normalized` (String) The normalized name of the conversation.
- `num_members` (Number) Number of members in the conversation.
- `purpose` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--conversation--purpose))
- `topic` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--conversation--topic))
- `unlinked` (Number) The number of messages unlinked from external sources.

<a id="nestedatt--conversation--purpose"></a>
### Nested Schema for `conversation.purpose`

Read-Only:

- `creator` (String) The user who set the purpose.
- `last_set` (Number) Timestamp of when the purpose was last set.
- `value` (String) The purpose of the conversation.


<a id="nestedatt--conversation--topic"></a>
### Nested Schema for `conversation.topic`

Read-Only:

- `creator` (String) The user who set the topic.
- `last_set` (Number) Timestamp of when the topic was last set.
- `value` (String) The topic of the conversation.
