---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "slack_user_profile Data Source - terraform-provider-slack"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The **slack_user_profile** resource manages a specific Slack user profile by their unique user ID. It retrieves and manages user attributes to ensure consistency in user information across your infrastructure.
  
  		This resource directly interacts with the Slack API to fetch user details based on the specified user ID.
  
  		**Required scopes**
  
  		User tokens: users:read
---

# slack_user_profile (Data Source)

The **slack_user_profile** resource manages a specific Slack user profile by their unique user ID. It retrieves and manages user attributes to ensure consistency in user information across your infrastructure.

			This resource directly interacts with the Slack API to fetch user details based on the specified user ID.

			**Required scopes**

			User tokens: users:read



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) ID to lookup.

### Read-Only

- `api_app_id` (String) ID of the associated API app.
- `avatar_hash` (String) User's avatar hash.
- `bot_id` (String) ID of the associated bot.
- `display_name` (String) User's display name.
- `display_name_normalized` (String) User's normalized display name.
- `email` (String) User's email address.
- `first_name` (String) User's first name.
- `image_192` (String) URL of the user's 192px image.
- `image_24` (String) URL of the user's 24px image.
- `image_32` (String) URL of the user's 32px image.
- `image_48` (String) URL of the user's 48px image.
- `image_512` (String) URL of the user's 512px image.
- `image_72` (String) URL of the user's 72px image.
- `image_original` (String) URL of the user's original image.
- `last_name` (String) User's last name.
- `phone` (String) User's phone number.
- `real_name` (String) User's real name.
- `real_name_normalized` (String) User's normalized real name.
- `skype` (String) User's Skype ID.
- `status_emoji` (String) The displayed emoji that is enabled for the Slack team.
- `status_expiration` (Number) Expiration timestamp for the user's status.
- `status_text` (String) User's status text.
- `team` (String) The ID of the workspace the user is in.
- `title` (String) User's title or role.
