---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "slack_user_groups Data Source - terraform-provider-slack"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The `slack_user_groups` data source retrieves information about user groups within Slack. It allows users to fetch details of multiple user groups, including their members and attributes.
  
  	You can customize the data retrieval using several optional parameters, such as whether to include user details, the count of users in each group, and whether to include disabled groups. This flexibility enables targeted queries based on your needs.
  
  	**Required scopes**
  
  	User tokens: usergroups:read
---

# slack_user_groups (Data Source)

The `slack_user_groups` data source retrieves information about user groups within Slack. It allows users to fetch details of multiple user groups, including their members and attributes.

		You can customize the data retrieval using several optional parameters, such as whether to include user details, the count of users in each group, and whether to include disabled groups. This flexibility enables targeted queries based on your needs.

		**Required scopes**

		User tokens: usergroups:read



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `include_count_filter` (Boolean) Include the count of users in each group. Defaults to `false`.
- `include_disabled_filter` (Boolean) Include disabled groups. Defaults to `false`.
- `include_users_filter` (Boolean) Include users in each group. Defaults to `false`.
- `team_id_filter` (String) Encoded team id to list user groups in, required if org token is used.

### Read-Only

- `user_groups` (Attributes List) List of Slack user groups. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--user_groups))

<a id="nestedatt--user_groups"></a>
### Nested Schema for `user_groups`

Optional:

- `groups` (List of String) The preferred groups for the Slack user group.

Read-Only:

- `auto_type` (String) Automation type for the group, if any.
- `channels` (List of String) The preferred channels for the Slack user group.
- `created_by` (String) The user who created the Slack user group.
- `date_create` (Number) The date when the Slack user group was created.
- `date_delete` (Number) The date when the Slack user group was deleted.
- `date_update` (Number) The date when the Slack user group was last updated.
- `deleted_by` (String) The user who deleted the Slack user group.
- `description` (String) Description of the group.
- `handle` (String) Short handle for mentioning the group.
- `id` (String) ID of the user group.
- `is_external` (Boolean) True if the group is external.
- `is_user_group` (Boolean) True if it is a user group.
- `name` (String) Name of the group.
- `team_id` (String) ID of the team (Slack workspace).
- `updated_by` (String) The user who last updated the Slack user group.
- `user_count` (Number) Number of users in the group.
- `users` (List of String) The list of users in the Slack usergroup.
