---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "slack_user_group Data Source - terraform-provider-slack"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The slack_user_group data source retrieves information about a specific user group within Slack. It allows users to fetch details such as user group members and attributes.
  You can customize the data retrieval by specifying various optional parameters:
  Include users: Choose whether to include user details within the group.Include count: Specify whether to return the count of users in the group.Include disabled groups: Optionally retrieve disabled user groups.Team ID: Filter groups by team ID for multi-team Slack organizations.
  This flexibility enables targeted queries based on your specific needs.
  Required scopes
  User tokens: user groups:read
---

# slack_user_group (Data Source)

The **slack_user_group** data source retrieves information about a specific user group within Slack. It allows users to fetch details such as user group members and attributes.

You can customize the data retrieval by specifying various optional parameters:
- **Include users**: Choose whether to include user details within the group.
- **Include count**: Specify whether to return the count of users in the group.
- **Include disabled groups**: Optionally retrieve disabled user groups.
- **Team ID**: Filter groups by team ID for multi-team Slack organizations.

This flexibility enables targeted queries based on your specific needs.

**Required scopes**

- User tokens: user groups:read

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "slack_user_group" "example" {
  name = "Marketing Team"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `groups` (List of String) The preferred groups for the Slack user group.
- `id` (String) ID of the user group.
- `include_count_filter` (Boolean) Include the count of users in each group.
- `include_disabled_filter` (Boolean) Include disabled groups.
- `include_users_filter` (Boolean) Include users in each group.
- `name` (String) Name of the user group.
- `team_id` (String) Team ID of the user group.
- `team_id_filter` (String) Encoded team id to list user groups in, required if org token is used.

### Read-Only

- `auto_type` (String) Automation type for the group, if any.
- `channels` (List of String) The preferred channels for the Slack user group.
- `created_by` (String) The user who created the Slack user group.
- `date_create` (Number) The date when the Slack user group was created.
- `date_delete` (Number) The date when the Slack user group was deleted.
- `date_update` (Number) The date when the Slack user group was last updated.
- `deleted_by` (String) The user who deleted the Slack user group.
- `description` (String) Description of the group.
- `handle` (String) Short handle for mentioning the group.
- `is_external` (Boolean) True if the group is external.
- `is_user_group` (Boolean) True if it is a user group.
- `updated_by` (String) User who last updated the group.
- `user_count` (Number) Number of users in the group.
- `users` (List of String) List of users in the group.
