---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "slack_users Data Source - terraform-provider-slack"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The slack_users resource manages multiple Slack users, allowing for the retrieval and management of user attributes.
  This resource interacts with the Slack API to fetch details for a list of users.
  You can optionally filter users based on their real name or email address, providing greater flexibility in retrieving specific user information.
  Required scopes
  User tokens: users:read, users:read.email (required to access the email field)
---

# slack_users (Data Source)

The **slack_users** resource manages multiple Slack users, allowing for the retrieval and management of user attributes.

This resource interacts with the Slack API to fetch details for a list of users.

You can optionally filter users based on their real name or email address, providing greater flexibility in retrieving specific user information.

**Required scopes**

User tokens: users:read, users:read.email (required to access the email field)



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `email` (String) Email address match filter.
- `name` (String) Name like filter.

### Read-Only

- `users` (Attributes List) List of users returned by the filter. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--users))

<a id="nestedatt--users"></a>
### Nested Schema for `users`

Read-Only:

- `color` (String) User's associated color.
- `deleted` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is deleted.
- `enterprise_user` (Attributes) Enterprise-specific user details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--users--enterprise_user))
- `has_2fa` (Boolean) Indicates if the user has 2FA enabled.
- `has_files` (Boolean) Indicates if the user has files associated with their account.
- `id` (String) Unique ID of the user.
- `is_admin` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is an admin.
- `is_app_user` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is an app user.
- `is_bot` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is a bot.
- `is_invited_user` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is invited.
- `is_owner` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is the owner.
- `is_primary_owner` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is the primary owner.
- `is_restricted` (Boolean) Indicates if the user has restricted access.
- `is_stranger` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is a stranger (external user).
- `is_ultra_restricted` (Boolean) Indicates if the user has ultra-restricted access.
- `locale` (String) User's locale.
- `name` (String) User's name.
- `presence` (String) User's presence status.
- `profile` (Attributes) User profile details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--users--profile))
- `real_name` (String) User's real name.
- `team_id` (String) ID of the user's team.
- `tz` (String) User's time zone.
- `tz_label` (String) Label for the user's time zone.
- `tz_offset` (Number) Time zone offset for the user in seconds.
- `updated` (Number) The timestamp the resource was last updated.

<a id="nestedatt--users--enterprise_user"></a>
### Nested Schema for `users.enterprise_user`

Read-Only:

- `enterprise_id` (String) Enterprise ID associated with the user.
- `enterprise_name` (String) Name of the enterprise the user belongs to.
- `id` (String) Unique ID of the enterprise user.
- `is_admin` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is an admin in the enterprise.
- `is_owner` (Boolean) Indicates if the user is the owner in the enterprise.
- `teams` (List of String) List of team IDs the user is part of.


<a id="nestedatt--users--profile"></a>
### Nested Schema for `users.profile`

Read-Only:

- `api_app_id` (String) ID of the associated API app.
- `avatar_hash` (String) User's avatar hash.
- `bot_id` (String) ID of the associated bot.
- `display_name` (String) User's display name.
- `display_name_normalized` (String) User's normalized display name.
- `email` (String) User's email address.
- `first_name` (String) User's first name.
- `image_192` (String) URL of the user's 192px image.
- `image_24` (String) URL of the user's 24px image.
- `image_32` (String) URL of the user's 32px image.
- `image_48` (String) URL of the user's 48px image.
- `image_512` (String) URL of the user's 512px image.
- `image_72` (String) URL of the user's 72px image.
- `image_original` (String) URL of the user's original image.
- `last_name` (String) User's last name.
- `phone` (String) User's phone number.
- `real_name` (String) User's real name.
- `real_name_normalized` (String) User's normalized real name.
- `skype` (String) User's Skype ID.
- `status_emoji` (String) The displayed emoji that is enabled for the Slack team.
- `status_expiration` (Number) Expiration timestamp for the user's status.
- `status_text` (String) User's status text.
- `team` (String) The ID of the workspace the user is in.
- `title` (String) User's title or role.
